Add docs for granular MHC timeout and `maxUnhealthy` configuration (#8112)
aws/eks-anywhere: docs/content/en/docs/getting-started/optional/healthchecks.md

---
title: "MachineHealthCheck"
linkTitle: "MachineHealthCheck"
weight: 40
aliases:
    /docs/reference/clusterspec/optional/healthchecks/
description: >
  EKS Anywhere cluster yaml specification for MachineHealthCheck configuration
---

## MachineHealthCheck Support

#### Provider support details
|                | vSphere | Bare Metal | Nutanix | CloudStack | Snow |
|:--------------:|:-------:|:----------:|:-------:|:----------:|:----:|
| **Supported?** |   ✓	    |     ✓      |   	 ✓   |     ✓      |  ✓   |

You can configure EKS Anywhere to specify timeouts and `maxUnhealthy` values for machine health checks.

A MachineHealthCheck (MHC) is a resource in Cluster API which allows users to define conditions under which Machines within a Cluster should be considered unhealthy. A MachineHealthCheck is defined on a management cluster and scoped to a particular workload cluster.

Note: Even though the MachineHealthCheck configuration in the EKS-A spec is optional, MachineHealthChecks are still installed for all clusters using the default values mentioned below.

> EKS-A allows users to have granular control over MachineHealthChecks in their cluster configuration, with default values (derived from Cluster API) being applied if the MHC is not configured in the spec. The top-level `machineHealthCheck` field governs the global MachineHealthCheck settings for all Machines (control-plane and worker). These global settings can be overriden through the nested `machineHealthCheck` field in the control plane configuration and each worker node configuration. If the nested MHC fields are not configured, then the top-level settings are applied to the respective Machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EKS Anywhere allows users to have granular control over MachineHealthChecks in their cluster configuration, with default values (derived from Cluster API) being applied if the MHC is not configured in the spec. The top-level `machineHealthCheck` field governs the global MachineHealthCheck settings for all Machines (control-plane and worker). These global settings can be overridden through the nested `machineHealthCheck` field in the control plane configuration and each worker node configuration. If the nested MHC fields are not configured, then the top-level settings are applied to the respective Machines.
```
